README.md, before:

# dotfiles

My dotfiles, installed apps, macOS system settings, Finder settings, etc.

Fork, or copy and set up as you'd like. The root scripts (i.e. `macos.sh`) can be run as often as you'd like. Subsequent runs after the first/inital execution, will ignore or appropriately handle common functions that should only run once, but will still update dependencies and apps, thus keeping everything up to date.

Note: For Windows setup, see specific instructions at ~~[windows.md](windows.md)~~ [windows/setup.ps1](windows/setup.ps1)

In `scripts/`, there is a zsh/ps1 script per environment (macOS, macOS - work machine, etc). These scripts source common functions from `scripts/common` and `scripts/macos` for macOS scripts, and `scripts/windows` for Windows.

For automatic management/installation of Homebrew formulae and casks, asdf plugins, etc, use the text files in each sub-directory to list your required apps etc.

Set them as environment vars in the root script accordingly (where applicable)

E.g. (inside `macos.sh`)

```
readonly TAPS=common/taps.txt
readonly FORMULAE=common/formulae.txt
readonly CASKS=macos/casks.txt
readonly APPS=macos/apps.txt
readonly ASDF_PLUGINS=common/asdf-plugins.txt
readonly ASDF_LIBS=common/asdf-libs.txt
readonly NPM_PKGS=common/npm-global-pkgs.txt
readonly GEMS=common/gems.txt
readonly DOCK_APPS=macos/dock-apps.txt
```

Inside windows.ps1

```
$env:CHOCOLATEY_APPS = 'windows/chocolatey.txt'
```

Commit message:

reimplement, test, and immutably run setup.ps1. update readme. add kinto shortcut. create lib dir for shared fns and utils

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

# macOS

TODO

# Linux Mint

TODO

# Windows 11

## Getting started (first time setup)

- Open Terminal app (defaults to PowerShell) or PowerShell session as **Administator**
- `winget install -s winget --accept-package-agreements Git.Git` (first run will prompt you to accept terms and conditions manually)
- `cd ~`
- `mkdir .ssh`
- Copy ssh keys from protected source to ~/.ssh
  - `mv .\id_rsa ~\.ssh\`
  - `mv .\id_rsa.pub ~\.ssh\`
- `cd ~`
- `mkdir workspaces`
- `cd workspaces`
- `mkdir personal`
- `cd personal`
- `git clone git@github.com:philipwindeyer/dotfiles.git`
- `cd ~/workspaces/personal/dotfiles/windows`
- `./setup.ps1`
- Note: the first run will take quite some time. Allow for an hour or more, but keep an eye out for any unexpected prompts.

## Information

- `windows/setup.ps1` is written to be one of the first, and only things to run on my Windows 11 machine in that it installs and configures almost everything I need
  - setup.ps1 can be run anytime. It only updates or makes changes when necessary
- `windows/lib` contains shared functions and vars, and helper files that may be copied to local directories where they can be executed
- `windows/powershell` contains PowerShell profile, aliases (like my git aliases), etc. setup.ps1 sources `windows/powershell/config.ps1` from $PROFILE

### TODO

- Migrate remaining steps from Notion (including Magic Keyboard/Trackpad driver installation, kinto.sh, manual pkgs, windows config, notes, etc)
