macos/README.md, before:

# Apple macOS 14 Sonoma Setup

## Manual one-time steps

_Note: This assumes you're running a fresh or company provisioned installation of macOS on a 2020 or newer MacBook (Air or Pro) equipped with an Apple M series chip._

Once drive is wiped, macOS is installed from scratch, and the initial setup is complete;

### First-time Setup

- Ensure you have a connection to the internet established
- Follow the guided "Welcome" screen
- Run Software Update and ensure OS is up to date

### System Settings

Open System Settings app and complete the following;

#### Trackpad

Point & Click -> Tap to click -> ON
_TODO: see if this can be scripted_

#### Displays

Night Shift... ->

- Schedule -> Sunset to Sunrise
- Color temperature -> 75%

_TODO: see if this can be scripted_

### Terminal

- Open Terminal
- Settings -> Profiles -> Homebrew -> Set as default

### Finder

- Open Finder
- View (menu bar) ->
  - Show Tab Bar
  - Show Sidebar
  - Show Toolbar
  - Show Path Bar
  - Show Status Bar

## Automated setup

Assuming you cloned this repo into a desired location locally already;

- Open Terminal app (defaults to zsh)
- `cd ~/path/to/dotfiles/macos` (i.e. `cd ~/workspaces/personal/dotfiles/macos`)
- `./setup.sh`

_Note: the first run will take quite some time. Allow for an hour or more, but keep an eye out for any unexpected prompts._

- Restart (if required)

_Note: this is still a WIP and may require multiple executions (and reboots during first installation) for it to complete._

## Install PWAs (via Safari "Add to Dock" button)

_TODO: Automate adding PWAs from Safari_

- Gmail
- Google Calendar
- Google Meet (Note: not installed currently as GMeet running as an isolated Safari app has permissions and authentication issues)
- Google Contacts
- Gemini
- Google Chat

## TODO

- Install PWAs from Safari (i.e. "Add to Dock") - can this be automated?
- Add apps (ordered) to Dock
- Script trackpad and display settings (manually described above)
- Uncomment and invoke final settings fns in setup.sh

Commit message:

update README - future update TODO

macos/README.md, after:

# Apple macOS 14 Sonoma Setup

## Manual one-time steps

_Note: This assumes you're running a fresh or company provisioned installation of macOS on a 2020 or newer MacBook (Air or Pro) equipped with an Apple M series chip._

Once drive is wiped, macOS is installed from scratch, and the initial setup is complete;

### First-time Setup

- Ensure you have a connection to the internet established
- Follow the guided "Welcome" screen
- Run Software Update and ensure OS is up to date

### System Settings

Open System Settings app and complete the following;

#### Trackpad

Point & Click -> Tap to click -> ON
_TODO: see if this can be scripted_

#### Displays

Night Shift... ->

- Schedule -> Sunset to Sunrise
- Color temperature -> 75%

_TODO: see if this can be scripted_

### Terminal

- Open Terminal
- Settings -> Profiles -> Homebrew -> Set as default

### Finder

- Open Finder
- View (menu bar) ->
  - Show Tab Bar
  - Show Sidebar
  - Show Toolbar
  - Show Path Bar
  - Show Status Bar

## Automated setup

Assuming you cloned this repo into a desired location locally already;

- Open Terminal app (defaults to zsh)
- `cd ~/path/to/dotfiles/macos` (i.e. `cd ~/workspaces/personal/dotfiles/macos`)
- `./setup.sh`

_Note: the first run will take quite some time. Allow for an hour or more, but keep an eye out for any unexpected prompts._

- Restart (if required)

_Note: this is still a WIP and may require multiple executions (and reboots during first installation) for it to complete._

## Install PWAs (via Safari "Add to Dock" button)

_TODO: Automate adding PWAs from Safari_
_TODO: Exclude this README from work fork then update this list accordingly (i.e. no Meet or Gemini)_

- Gmail
- Google Calendar
- Google Meet (Note: not installed currently as GMeet running as an isolated Safari app has permissions and authentication issues)
- Google Contacts
- Gemini
- Google Chat

## TODO

- Install PWAs from Safari (i.e. "Add to Dock") - can this be automated?
- Add apps (ordered) to Dock
- Script trackpad and display settings (manually described above)
- Uncomment and invoke final settings fns in setup.sh
